DOCKER INSTALLATION AND BASIC COMMANDS

Installing Docker on Windows
1. Open: https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install
2. Download the latest version and install it.
3. To execute Docker commands in Windows:
   -> Open PowerShell (in Windows similar to DOS terminal)
   -> Run the docker commands

Note:
Docker for Windows can be installed only on:
- Windows 10 Pro (64-bit)
OR
- Windows Server 2016 edition


DOCKER CONCEPTS

Docker Images
A Docker image is a collection of bin/lib (binaries and libraries) that are necessary for an application.


Docker Container
-> A running instance of an image is called a container
-> Any number of containers can be created from one image
-> Initially all docker images are present in the cloud site of docker (hub.docker.com)


Docker Client
-> This is the application where we can execute docker commands
-> Linux terminal or PowerShell can act as a docker client
-> The docker client sends commands to a background process called docker daemon


Docker Daemon
Docker daemon is a background process of docker.
It accepts commands from docker client and sends them to
docker images or containers or docker registry.


Docker Registry
Docker registry is the cloud site where all docker images are stored.

Types:
1. Public Registry
2. Private Registry


1. Public Registry
Public registry is hub.docker.com and anyone can download images from this site.


2. Private Registry
Private registry is maintained by individual organizations and only the organization team members can access these images.


Docker Host
The machine where docker is installed and where all containers run is called Docker Host.



IMPORTANT DOCKER COMMANDS

Working with Docker Images

1. To see the list of docker images in our machine (Docker Host)
   docker images
   OR
   docker image ls

2. To download an image from docker hub
   docker pull image-name

3. To upload an image to docker hub
   docker push image-name

4. To search for images on docker hub
   docker search image-name

5. To delete an image from docker host
   docker rmi image-name

6. To create an image from a container
   docker commit container-name/container-id image-name

7. To create an image from a dockerfile
   docker build -t imagename .

Note:
"." represents the current working directory.



WORKING WITH DOCKER CONTAINERS

8. To see the list of running containers
   docker container ls

9. To see the list of stopped and running containers
   docker ps -a

10. To start a container
    docker start container-name/container-id

11. To stop a container
    docker stop container-name/container-id

12. To restart a container
    docker restart container-name/container-id

    To restart a container after 10 seconds
    docker restart -t 10 container-name/container-id

13. To remove a stopped container
    docker rm container-name/container-id

14. To remove a running container
    docker rm -f container-name/container-id

15. To stop all the running containers
    docker stop $(docker ps -aq)

16. To remove all the stopped containers
    docker rm $(docker ps -aq)

17. To remove all running containers
    docker rm -f $(docker ps -aq)

18. To see the logs generated by the container
    docker logs container-name/container-id

19. To see the ports of a container
    docker port container-name/container-id

20. To find detailed information about a container
    docker inspect container-name/container-id

21. Creating a docker container
    docker run image-name



DOCKER NETWORKING COMMANDS

22. To see the list of docker networks
    docker network ls

23. To inspect a network
    docker network inspect network-id/network-name

24. To create a network
    docker network create network-name

25. To delete a network
    docker network rm network-id/network-name
